
## Bivectors as mathematical objects

If vectors are one-dimensional mathematical objects that may describe multi dimensional spaces in terms of basis, as we have seen before, than what if we make a new mathematical object that is like a vector but is two-dimensional? This two dimensional object is called a bivector and can be geometrically though of as oriented plane segments with some area (magnitude) and orientation, which may be clockwise or counterclockwise. (Note, that in this context orientation is not the direction in which the bivector is facing but the direction in which its sides are revolving). Similarly to vectors the bivector as a mathematical object is not defined by where it is in space only by its magnitude and orientation. However, unlike vectors which are translation invariant bivectors also have the same size and orientation no matter how it is rotated in its plane thus making bivectors additionally rotation invariant. Geometrically, bivectors don't have a given 2D shape and should be thought of as a pure orientation and magnitude, for example, a clockwise rotation with magnitude 3. So if a vector is a mathematical object with a direction and magnitude than a bivector is an object with rotation and magnitude. Since bivectors are both translation and rotation invariant they can be described by a single number in 2D whose absolute value represents the magnitude of the bivector and since bivectors are two-dimensional and they can only be either clockwise or counterclockwise their orientation can be represented by the positive or negative sign of the number. This property of being able to describe bivectors with a single number much like scalars makes 2D bivectors **pseudoscalars**. In one-dimension, vectors are pseudoscalars since in 1D, vectors correspond to scalars; in the same way bivectors correspond to scalars in 2D. I will algebraically denote bivectors as $\overleftrightarrow{v}$ in the future. 

## Operations on Bivectors

## Operations in 2D:

Similar to vectors bivectors can be scaled by a scalar multiple: $a\overleftrightarrow{v}$ which has the effect of scaling the magnitude or area of the bivector. We can also add bivectors which has the effect of adding their magnitudes, if the bivectors have the same orientation, if they have opposite orientations than adding them is equivalent to subtracting one bivector from another. Geometrically, if we add two bivectors of opposite orientations the result is a bivector with magnitude: $||\overleftrightarrow{v}| - |\overleftrightarrow{u}||$ i.e. the absolute value of the difference in area of the bivectors and orientation depending on which bivector had the greater magnitude. Thus multiplying a bivector with the scalar -1 has the geometric effect of changing the bivectors orientation.  

## Operations in 3D:

Scaling bivectors in 3D is similar to 2D we just have to be mindful of keeping the position of the 2D bivector the same in 3D space, that is keeping the plane in which they are defined in the same. Adding bivectors in 3D can be geometrically interpreted as: Placing the edges of 2 bivectors such that their shared edge have the same size and counteracting orientations, which produces a new bivector starting from the end of one bivector and going to the end of the other with orientation defined by the orientation of the edges where the bivector starts and ends. When adding up bivectors you have to make sure that the sides that you are aligning have the same length, if they don't you must reshape one of the bivectors to a parallelogram with the appropriate shared side length. Additionally, the zero bivector  defines a point similar to the zero vector. 

# Do bivectors form a linear space?

Since we can do similar operations on bivectors as we can on regular vectors this might suggest that bivectors can define a linear space similar to vectors, but the geometric interpretation of operations on bivectors are different depending on if we are doing them in 2D or 3D. However, since we know that in 2D bivectors are pseudoscalars a unit bivector $i$ can be interpreted as a scalar in 2D and since scalars have the same properties of scaling and addition as vectors the properties that a mathematical object must satisfy to define a linear space can be derived for bivectors in 2D. For 3D space, since a single bivector can be thought of as living on 2D plane in a 3D space then properties that rely only on a single bivector are also satisfied in 3D the same way as in 2D. At this point I'm quite lazy and some proofs kind of need geometric visualizations to make sense so I will just link the where they are proved [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kn0FHuK8ihs&list=PLVuwZXwFua-0Ks3rRS4tIkswgUmDLqqRy&index=16).  
